[THEME MUSIC]
>>WILLIAM HENRY: Hello,
I'm William Henry.
Welcome to "The Awakened Soul."
In November 2011, I was
leading an ascension conference
in Tempe, Arizona.
During the weekend I presented
my new and original work
on the rainbow body of light,
and the ascension symbolism
and art in the dome
of the US Capitol.
The existence of the symbolism
in the most powerful building
in the world is an
amazing disclosure.
I didn't know it,
but that presentation
was also a gateway for
me to an immense soul
awakening, which I will
share with you momentarily.
I'm still amazed
by this connection
and how beautifully
synchronistic
our universe really is.
First, a bit of background about
the rainbow body and the soul
ascension secrets of US Capitol.
I won't go into
deep detail here.
I just want to set up the
back story for the revelation
to come.
If you're interested in seeing
more, as I hope you will be,
please view our Arcanum
episode that Clare and I
did on the subject, the
Ascension of George Washington.
I promise you, it
will blow your mind.
My interest in the ascension
symbolism in the US Capitol
dome began back in 2008
when my friend Dr. Mark
Gray, who became my co-author
of my book, "Freedom's Gate,"
and I were the first
to decode and connect
the symbolism of the US
Capitol to the ascension
mysteries of the past.
Our collaboration
began in Philadelphia.
During a presentation,
Dr. Gray nearly
came out of this
chair with excitement
when I showed photos of the
interior of the Capitol dome
with George Washington on
the other end of a star gate,
or what I interpreted as a star
gate, composed of 72 stars.
The Fresco in the
eye of the dome
called The Apotheosis
of George Washington
is a masterpiece about chemical
and ascension symbolism,
about human transformation
into ascended beings.
That's what the word
apotheosis means.
It means to raise from a
human state to a divine state.
Painted by the Italian
immigrant Constantino Brumidi
and completed in
1865, Washington
is portrayed as an ascended
or divine being who
has gone through
a gate of 72 stars
and is now enthroned on a
rainbow in a heavenly scene.
As I said, the word
apotheosis means
to raise from the human
realm of the divine,
and it means to ascend.
This is why we refer to the US
capital as an ascension dome.
I'll always remember Dr. Gray
at that presentation saying,
are you saying the dome of
the US Capitol is a star gate
and George Washington
has gone through it?
Yeah, I said.
This is exactly what
this symbolism shows.
The US Capitol dome is
every bit as profound
as the ascension
domes we'd find around
the world that encode the
secrets of human transformation
into light beings and soul
travel through portals.
These domes are gateways.
They are divine conduits.
From Jerusalem's Church
of the Holy Sepulchre,
where Jesus is believed
to have ascended,
the Dome of the Rock, where
the Ark of the Covenant
was placed, to Istanbul's Chora
Church, and the fabulous Hagia
Sophia, to Siena in Italy.
We find these incredible
domes around the world
that are loaded with
the secrets of ascension
hidden in plain sight.
But to me, the US Capitol
dome is the most profound.
In 2009, Dan Brown's
eagerly anticipated book,
"The Lost Symbol,"
set in Washington, DC,
focused on this dome.
The funny thing
is that Dan Brown
had his fictional character,
Dr. Robert Langdon, precisely
duplicate my experiences
in the US Capitol
as I describe them in my video,
The American Right, which
included my early research
on the Capitol dome.
During my many research
trips to the Capitol,
I would lay on the center
of the rotunda's floor
and visualize the
dome as a star gate.
And I began to realize
that the dome is actually
a model of our pineal
gland, the soul's gateway.
Dan Brown actually
had Robert Langdon
do the same thing in "The
Lost Symbol," even describing
the dome is like
the pineal gland
and seeing it open
like a star gate.
I mean, this could be
one of the greatest
literary synchronicities
of all time.
It certainly lead
people to start
saying I was the real
life Dr. Robert Langdon.
Not so sure about that, but
it is kind of flattering.
To me, Constantino
Brumidi was crystal clear
that he believed
George Washington had
attained a Christ-like status.
In fact, when we
showed this comparison,
Dr. Gray and I saw
utter astonishment
on the faces of the
experts at the Architect
of the Capitol's office.
How come we haven't seen
this before, they said.
They had never thought to
put Washington on a rainbow
beside Christ as an ascended
being on the rainbow.
We took it one
step further and we
showed that this
portrayal matched
not only the
Christian depictions
of the ascended
Christ on a rainbow,
but also the Tibetan depictions
of the rainbow body of light.
This is an extraordinary
observation
that had never been made
before, and opened up
new territory in the study
of the Capitol's symbolism.
I consider it one of my
most important contributions
to the study of the
ascension mysteries.
Actually, the people
at the Capitol
know there are unsolved
mysteries about this temple
building.
Perhaps this is one reason why
we given such wide latitude
at the Capitol to prowl
around looking for clues.
They would only
let us go so far.
We encountered
resistance on a couple
of really key discoveries, which
they asked us not to publish.
To me, the most astonishing
code symbol in the Capitol
is not just that
George Washington
is shown on a rainbow
in the celestial realms
as an ascended
being, but that he
is surrounded by 13 maidens
with stars on their heads.
These are celestial beings.
Now when you're in
the Capitol, guides
will tell you that these
13 maidens represent the 13
original colonies.
But I say, hold on.
This is a heavenly scene.
What's going on here?
Well, my answer is
that the Tibetans
teach that the rainbow body
practice is taught in 13 star
systems, including our own.
I began to wonder,
is it possible
that the 13 celestial maidens
around George Washington
represent the 13 star
systems, or star colonies,
of which our earth
and soul are part of?
If so, think of
the ramifications
of this disclosure.
Do souls really come and go
between these star systems
via a system of star gates
and wormholes as I proposed?
Does the US
government know this?
Was the founder of the nation
shown the secrets of ascension?
Is this why he's portrayed
as a resurrected human
in the Capitol?
Historically,
Washington was revered
as an ordinary man who
was able to accomplish
the extraordinary, even
spiritual extraordinary when he
led the first Americans to
freedom and the founding
of a new nation
dedicated to freedom
and the liberty
of the individual.
What many Americans and people
around the world don't realize
is that the Freemasons eulogized
George Washington as Enoch, one
of the first humans to ascend.
In the story, Enoch
was taken to heaven
by the Archangel
Michael, who anointed him
with an oil that dissolved
his body into rainbow light.
Once Enoch attained
this light being status,
he gained the ability to
fluidly morph or phase
between his light body
state and flesh and blood.
Think about that.
Are the Freemasons
actually implying
that George Washington was the
reincarnated soul of Enoch?
Let's look at some evidence.
Depictions I found in
museums in Philadelphia
and New York of Washington
after his death stunningly
portrayed him ascending
into heaven just
like the story of Enoch.
This engraving by J.J.
Barralet from 1800
is based on a sermon delivered
after Washington's death
equating Washington to Enoch.
Again, did the Freemasons
and ordinary Americans
of the early 1800s
actually believe
that George Washington was
a reincarnation of Enoch
and that he too ascended?
Think about this possibility
and what it actually means.
In this 1800 Apotheosis
of Washington,
we see an angel placing
the wreath of immortality
on Washington's head.
In this example, Washington is
raised like Jesus from the tomb
upon a shaft of light by the
spiritual and temporal genius
assisted by immortality.
And he ascends through a
sun gate or a star gate.
In this final example, we
see Washington as a Freemason
standing on a
checkerboard, the symbol
of the matrix of earth life.
A ladder extends from
his right shoulder.
The latter extends into
a rainbow hole in heaven,
or a rip in the
fabric of space time.
To me, this shows
Washington's dissolution
into pure energy and his
attainment of the rainbow light
body.
And it's suggested,
it's pretty obvious
that early Americans believe
something extraordinary
about George Washington
that we have either
dismissed or forgotten.
They believed George
Washington was an awakened soul
and that he ascended.
Or at least they intended
for him to ascend.
So did he attain the rainbow
light body as I propose?
Is he now a resident of the
divine throne, like Enoch?
And if so, what does that mean
for the founding of America?
It seems as if, like
the original Jesus,
Washington has been white
washed by future generations,
and he's become lost.
But can you imagine if
imagery such as this
were attached to any
current era president?
Instead of a nation led
by conscious ascenders,
we seem to have become a nation
led by unconscious descenders
who are apparently leading
us away from us spiritually
or soul-based nation into a
nation devoid of anything that
smacks of spirituality.
But America was founded upon the
separation of church and state.
However, we are creating
a world of no religion
and no spirituality
some believe.
The problem is
we're also risking
creating a world with no soul.
But nations do have souls.
There are such things
as soul groups.
And the soul of these groups
gets in the DNA of the people,
in its mindset.
And today some
people are searching
for the American soul.
They wonder, where has it gone?
Remember, America was founded
as a psychological space where
souls from all over
the world would
be free for the first
time in the history
of the tyranny of a
king or the limitations
of a pope or a priest, to attain
freedom and enlightenment.
The concept of soul
liberty is you is
the unique keystone to America.
The basic idea is
that in matters
of religion and
spirituality, each person
has the liberty and
freedom to choose
what his or her conscious
were soul dictates is right,
and is only truly accountable
to God for their decisions.
This is an inalienable
right bestowed on the soul
by our creator God, and
it cannot be taken away.
This concept is
based on the belief
that God created our
souls and we therefore
are only answerable to God.
But throughout history,
the state and church
has regarded itself as the
ruler of the human soul.
Billions upon billions of souls
that have incarnated on Earth
have been subjects of an earthly
hierarchy that has really
zero interest in allowing
the individual soul to fully
display its abilities or,
especially, to ascend.
At least not without
their permission.
But the founding
fathers of America
challenged this relationship.
Bewildered, many of the
ancestors of America's founders
left their home in
England and elsewhere
and made a perilous journey
across a great divide,
across an ocean.
But more importantly, across
a great ideological divide.
Just like the Buddha,
they no longer
wish to maintain an illusion.
They set out to discover the
basic truth about our soul.
And they founded
religious sects.
They identified themselves as
Puritans, Quakers, Shakers,
seekers, ranchers, soul
sleepers, diggers, levelers,
earth shakers.
These were the names.
They sound like
gangs but these are
spiritually motivated people.
They came to America to
try a holy experiment.
They came to the New World to
get the king off their back
and to abolish the state's
authority on their soul.
This American soul experiment
sought to answer the question,
what can people do?
What can a soul accomplish with
no pope, priest, politician
telling us what is
possible for us?
And this began a new journey, a
new chapter for the human soul.
And America became more
than just a sacred ideal.
It became a sacred place.
And I emphasize that for
the first time in history,
the founding fathers began with
the premise of the sovereignty
of the individual soul.
The sovereignty of the soul.
Think about that.
They believed that
each soul possesses
certain inalienable
and individual rights.
Among these are life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness,
which they equated
with wholeness.
Ultimately, this equates with
holiness and righteousness.
And we know we are fully whole,
holy, and complete when we've
attained our rainbow body.
And we attain this, again,
not out of ego gratification,
but because it's the only way
to create a truly just society,
a soul-based society.
And this ideal speaks directly
to why George Washington
is portrayed in his
rainbow light body
in the dome of the US Capitol.
Because the founding
fathers were
able to create a practical
document, the Bill of Rights,
and a system of government that
kept the powers of government
in check, they actually
created an environment
in which the soul
could thrive again
for the first time in history.
The ultimate manifestation
of soul liberty
is enlightenment or ascension.
And again, we therefore
should really not
be so surprised that
Constantino Brumidi
painted the savior of America
as an enlightened being.
In our world, in our time, we
each have an opportunity never
before given to so many people.
Our freedom of choice,
movement, and thought
gives our soul
the tools it needs
to gather knowledge of
ascension and the freedom
to practice and achieve it.
Today one can decide to
aim their soul at its most
elevated level, and at
the press of a computer
button have access to
everything one needs
to achieve the state of being.
From traveling to
a distant country
to accessing any
sacred text, we're
connecting with any guru
or spiritual teacher.
Without wishing to
sound patronizing,
it is a fact that
there has never
existed a Gaia TV before in
human history, in which all
the greatest spiritual and
higher consciousness teachings
are together in one place
at the click of a button.
No other civilization in human
history can make this claim.
Well, maybe not
since the destruction
of the Library of Alexandria
in Egypt in 280 AD.
So this means we freely do live
during an extraordinary time.
And this is not a
propaganda talk for America.
The point I'm making is that
no other government has ever
founded, was ever
founded, with the express
purpose of freeing the soul.
It's a little bit more
than ironic, isn't it,
that these men
also owned slaves.
So now onto my
promised revelation.
After my presentation
in Tempe, a gentleman
introduced himself as a
long time practitioner
of the Tibetan great
perfection, or the rainbow
body of light teaching.
He congratulated me on the
connections and discoveries
that I had made in my progress.
And he said he had
something to give me
and he'd bring it
to me the next day.
Well, the next day he
arrived with this image.
From the very first
time I saw this image,
I was simply awestruck
and astounded.
It's called the Path of
Calm Abiding, he said.
And it shows an initiate
following a winding path
that resembles a stairway to
a cosmic conduit, a rainbow
bridge.
What we see here is the soul
symbolized by a gray elephant,
begins at the bottom
of the journey
and passes through trials as it
makes its ascent to the throne.
As it reaches the
higher and higher levels
on this stairway of
light, the gray elephant
begins to turn pink.
The idea is that as one
ascends the spiral pathway,
one gains more and more purity.
We become more compassionate.
And once the soul reaches
the rainbow bridge,
it can freely come and go
from the eternal world.
We can phase between
the celestial flesh
and earthly flesh,
just like Enoch.
And the two white
elephants that we
see meeting one another
on the rainbow bridge
symbolize the ability
of the ascendant's soul
to come and go from the pure
land to the earth plain.
Until finally, across
the rainbow bridge,
we see the purified soul
in the rainbow room.
Now you've already probably
made this connection
that this scene
precisely matches
Christian images of Christ
enthroned on a rainbow throne.
The Book of Hebrews
tells us that Sion
is the name of the celestial
holy city of the living
God, the heavenly Jerusalem.
And our arrival there
marks our acceptance
into an innumerable
company of angels
and just humans made perfect.
But you are come to
Mount Sion, says Hebrews,
into the city of the living
God, the heavenly Jerusalem,
and to an innumerable
company of angels
to the Church of the
Firstborn, whose names
are written in heaven.
This is an
extraordinary statement
that tells us that heaven is
populated by a group of humans
who have achieved perfection.
Hebrews continues
saying, you have
come to God, the judge of all,
to the spirits of the just
or righteous made perfect.
Clearly, we are
being told that Sion
is a spiritual place
beyond the physical realm,
and that Sion's godly
inhabitants are actually
transformed or ascending humans,
just humans make perfect,
who live in the companies of
angels in the heavenly city.
This is exactly the same as the
Buddhist concept of Nirvana,
and it also matches the
story of the Apotheosis
of George Washington
in the US Capitol dome.
To me, this symbolism seals
the link between the star gate
or wormhole in the dome of the
Capitol and the Tibetan rainbow
body tradition, and
the Christian concept
of the Resurrection
or glory body.
The Buddha could also
be George Washington.
And what happened for me
is that my introduction
to and further exploration of
the Native American beliefs
about the path of souls was
still a couple of years away.
But once I learned
about it, I readily
recognized the winding
waterway or pathway
upon which the soul acsends
in these Path of Calm Abiding
images is the Milky
Way, and that this
is the Buddhist version of the
Native American path of souls
idea.
So I began seeking other images
that portrayed this path, which
is also called Shamatha.
In this Bhutanese painted
thanka of the Jataka tales
from the 18th or 19th
century from Bhutan,
we see the same
layer cake effect
with levels of reality linked
by rainbow bridges or divine
conduits until finally,
on the higher level
we see the white
elephant and a serpent,
and finally, the
enthroned Buddha.
This is exactly, once again,
what we see in Christian art.
Now Buddhists would
say that we already
have attained our ascension.
We only need to realize it and
by undoing the bewildering mind
and focusing on peace.
Shamatha meditation
is how they do this.
Shamatha, or peacefully abiding,
is a very extraordinary word.
The root sham means peace.
And interestingly,
vowels are considered
to be interchangeable
in ancient words.
So swapping an I or an
E here or there reveals
some very fascinating links.
Shama, for example, is
the root of shambala,
the realm of the immortals,
the Shining Ones.
Interestingly, the
Tibetan for Shamatha
is shyine which looks
like shine in English.
Sham or sham is the
Arabic name for the sun.
It's found in the Hebrew
shamir, which rings of shimmer.
This was the name of the
miraculous stone cutter
used to build Solomon's Temple.
Sham is found in Baal
Shemit, a classification
of Jewish priests who
knew the name of the Lord.
Bit Shimti is the name of the
house where the wind or soul
was breathed into the first
human, Adapa, in the Sumerian
story.
Ni Shemit is the name of the
golden soul boat of Osiris.
Then finally, there's the word
shaman, or shaman, or soul
healer.
That's a lot of powerful words
revolving around the word sham
that are all congruent with the
ideals of peace and ascension.
Funny isn't it, that all these
words contain the word sham?
Shamatha is a practice
that anyone can do.
It really is a
science of the mind.
All you have to do is be mindful
and set your heart's power
of intention on peace.
And this links you with what
I call the heart's ascension
intelligence.
The Shamatha thankas
are meant, actually,
to be open eye meditations that
guide our mind into stillness.
Peacefully abiding means
we are at peace or feeling
whole and complete.
We know we are at
that ultimate peace
when the rainbow
bridge opens before us.
These illustrations
actually function
in a manner similar
to a cosmogram
or a mandala, a Sanskrit word
meaning circle and wholeness.
Mandalas are designed to help
us to go full circle as souls.
Mandalas are concentric
diagrams or holy patterns that
represent a universe or
cosmos metaphysically
and symbolically.
They are used as
meditation aids.
Hindus and Buddhists
use mandalas
to create imaginary
palaces or thrones
to focus the spiritual attention
of aspirants and adepts.
They are divine conduits.
The center point in the
circle is called the bindu.
The mandala binds the
aspirant to the divine.
And the bindu or bindu is
thought of as a seed, a sperm,
a drop, or a starting
point around which
the spiritual essence is drawn.
As the devotee draws in
the essence energies,
their own energies begin to
bind with the spiritual essence
and expand.
The word mandala is derived
from manda, or essence, and la,
or container.
Indeed, it is a container
of this essence,
and it is designed
to help our body
to become a container for
this essence, as well.
An additional purpose
of the mandala
is significant to our study.
That is because mandalas
symbolize the universe.
They are an active
form of meditation
that establish sacred
space, a pure Buddha
realm, and the abode of fully
realized beings or deities
where our ascended
higher self dwells.
Just having a mandala
in our presence
establishes sacred space.
The sacred space of the mandala
is actually viewed as separate
from ordinary or profane
reality, the normal world.
And by visualizing pure
lands or Buddha realms,
one learns to
dwell in that place
and experience oneself
as a pure being.
Buddhists teach that meditating
on the symbols of the mandala
opens one to progressively
deeper levels
of the unconscious until
the meditator experiences
a mystical sense of oneness
with the divine realm.
The mandala represents
all the levels
of energy of the perfect
spiritual body working
in balance by allowing our mind
to recognize that wholeness
and perfection is
our original state,
and this is a state
of pure peace.
Here's another example of a
golden Dorje from the Rubin
Museum.
It looks like an exploding
star or a wormhole to me.
The path of calm abiding images
that we've been exploring
had much more to show me.
Soon after learning
about them, I
became transfixed by a
series of unusual 15th
to 17th century
Russian Last Judgment
icons, which depict a
serpent ladder linking
Earth with Jesus's
cosmic throne, or Sion.
The icon shown here features
the extraordinary symbolism
of this style of Last
Judgment iconography.
What we see are five
horizontal zones
with a central access,
a tree or a pillar,
around which climbs a serpentine
rope, chain, or rosary of orbs.
Each zone represents a level
of light, or perhaps vibration.
As Dr. David Goldfrank notes
in his article, A Problem
of Last Judgment Iconography,
the snake suddenly
appeared without warning
in late medieval Ukrainian
and Russian Last
Judgment iconography.
But nobody knows
where it came from.
It usually has 20 or
more rings representing
what Goldfrank calls stellar
toll booths through which
the soul must pass after death.
The resurrected Jesus sits on
an arching bow in a blue sphere
in the higher zones.
Stellar toll booth.
I love it when academics
speak like this.
And personally, I think
they'd find great illumination
if instead of using
the word toll booth,
they use the word
star gate instead,
because this is obviously
what's being described here.
And further, the serpent
symbolizes the cosmic conduit,
just like in the Tibetan images
of the Path of Calm Abiding.
Is this the source
of this imagery?
Or does it come
from somewhere else?
Goldfrank tells us that
the rings on the serpent
represent the torments the
human soul must go through
in order to return to
the kingdom of heaven.
In my view, this serpent rope
is a sort of umbilical cord
that can be thought of
as the spiritual ladder,
or stairway to heaven.
It literally is the
star gate to God.
It represents the soul's
path to ascension.
In Secret of Sion, I propose
that these cosmic toll booths
are, in fact, star gates
that the soul passes through
on its way to Sion.
They're soul gates.
And these images map
the soul's journey home.
Let's take a look
at another example.
In the lowest zone here
on the left hand side,
we see the righteous
souls in line
waiting to enter past St. Peter,
who stands at the golden door
or tower with
golden gates guarded
by a seraph, a celestial
being that dwells normally
at the throne of God but
has apparently come here
to retrieve these souls.
Once again, we see
the ascended Christ
is shown enthroned and radiant
at the end of the serpent's
mouth, or at the
end of the wormhole.
He is in heaven, enthroned
upon a sapphire blue orb,
ringed with stars and
flanked by Mary and John
the Baptist, the two
people who helped him most
during his earthly ascension.
He's also surrounded by
mysterious celestial or star
beings, who are referred to in
Hebrews as the just humans made
perfect.
As we notice here,
beneath Jesus is
a cross mounted to
a box or an alter
and attended by two angels,
and other instruments
of the passion, including
the Spear of Destiny
and the rod with a sponge.
In Russia, this
assembly of symbols
was called Etimasia, or the
throne of the Second Coming,
and will be retrieved
and reassembled
by the returning Christ at
the time of the Second Coming.
The Greek verb hetoimase means
to prepare, or preparation,
as in the Second Coming.
It's ever present in these
Russian Last Judgment images
because it will be
deployed at judgment day
when the Christ or
messiah returns.
In my book "The
Judgment Day Device,"
I propose that this throne is
in fact the fully assembled
Ark of the Covenant, the throne
chariot or soul transportation
device.
When the rod of Aaron, seen
here in the Ark of the Covenant,
is attached to the
golden box of the Ark
and the two tablets
are placed on top
of that rod of enlightenment,
it forms the throne of Christ.
So in my view, the
Tibetan imagery
is very likely the candidate
for the source of this imagery.
And once again, we
are looking at images
that are designed to assist
the soul in mapping it's
ascension to the divine realms.
More fantastically, I can
envision the original source
of this imagery as coming
from a divine place
elsewhere, deep in the cosmos.
All of these images
we've looked at,
from George Washington on
the rainbow in the US Capitol
to the Tibetan Path
of Calm Abiding
to the Russian Last
Judgment images
help us to recognize
that our soul ascends
via a divine or cosmic conduit
that we today call a wormhole.
These conduits remind me
a bit of the beanstalk
Jack ascended to in
the land of the giant
after he planted the magic
seeds in the fairytale.
And in the next
episode, we're going
to explore our souls
as sacred star seeds
and see how this
idea could truly
transform our world into a
truly green civilization.
Until next time, be humble,
let your light shine.
Namaste.
[THEME MUSIC]